
    Blockchain is a type of shared database that differs from a typical database in the way it stores information; blockchains store data in blocks linked together via cryptography.
    Different types of information can be stored on a blockchain, but the most common use for transactions has been as a ledger. 
    In Bitcoin’s case, blockchain is decentralized so that no single person or group has control—instead, all users collectively retain control.
    Decentralized blockchains are immutable, which means that the data entered is irreversible. For Bitcoin, transactions are permanently recorded and viewable to anyone.
    
    How does a blokchain works?
    A blockchain is somewhat similar because it is a database where information is entered and stored. But the key difference between a traditional database or spreadsheet and a blockchain is how the data is structured and accessed.A blockchain consists of programs called scripts that conduct the tasks you usually would in a database: Entering and accessing information and saving and storing it somewhere. A blockchain is distributed, which means multiple copies are saved on many machines, and they must all match for it to be valid.The blockchain collects transaction information and enters it into a block, like a cell in a spreadsheet containing information. Once it is full, the information is run through an encryption algorithm, which creates a hexadecimal number called the hash.The hash is then entered into the following block header and encrypted with the other information in the block. This creates a series of blocks that are chained together.
    
    
    Nonce?
    Every miner starts with a nonce of zero, which is appended to their randomly-generated hash. If that number isn't equal to or less than the target hash, a value of one is added to the nonce, and a new block hash is generated. This continues until a miner generates a valid hash, winning the race and receiving the reward. 
    
    Currency
    Healthcare
    property record
    Smart contracts
    supply chain
    Voting
    
    
    Wallets And Digital Signatures

A blockchain wallet is a special software or a hardware device that is used to keep the transaction information and personal information of the user. Blockchain wallets do not contain the actual currency. The wallets are used to keep private keys and maintain a transaction balance. 
Wallets are only a communication tool to communicate to carry out transactions with other users. The real data or currency is stored in blocks in the blockchain.

Digital signatures are like proofs that the user gives to the recipient and other nodes in the network to prove that it is a legitimate node in the network to carry out transactions. While initiating a transaction with other nodes in the blockchain network, the user first has to create a unique digital signature by combining the transaction data with the user’s private key using a special algorithm. This process will guarantee the authenticity of the node and the integrity of the data.
    
    
    Block-chain uses two types of cryptography asymmetric cryptography and hash function
    
    Hashing function:
    Input cannot be re-engineered through the hash.
    the avalanche effect a slight change in the hash resuls in a change in hash.
    Hash function used SHAh-256
    
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------    
   21-july-20223   
   
    hot wallet || cold wallet || paper based wallet
    
    trnsaction 
    smartcontract(read and write)
    block explorer understnding
    white paper(constraints)
        
    node level wallet (least secured)
    
    metamask official doucumentation explore
    
connect network
correct network
transaction
address value to address to address    
